Pass on architecture (#317)
ietf-wg-privacypass/base-drafts: draft-ietf-privacypass-architecture.md

contexts:

- Redemption context: The interactions and set of information shared
between the Client and Origin. This context includes all information
associated with redemption, such as the timestamp of the event, Client
visible information (including the IP address), and the Origin name.
- Issuance context: The interactions and set of information shared
between the Client, Attester, and Issuer. This context includes all
information associated with issuance, such as the timestamp of the event,

> any Client visibile information (including the IP address), and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
any Client visible information (including the IP address), and the
```

Origin name (if revealed during issuance).
- Attestation context: The interactions and set of information shared between
the Client and Attester only, for the purposes of attesting the vailidity of
the Client. This context includes all information associated with attestation,
such as the timestamp of the event and any Client visibile information,

> including the IP address or other information specific to the type of

Reviewer 2: the wording here seems a little odd, maybe implying IP address and other information is necessarily visible?

Author: Rephrased slightly to focus just on attestation information.

> including the IP address or other information specific to the type of
> attestation done.

Author: ```suggestion
including information needed for the attestation procedure to complete.
```

The privacy goals of Privacy Pass are oriented around unlinkability based on
these contexts. In particular, Privacy Pass aims to achieve three different
types of unlinkability:

1. Origin-Client unlinkability. This means that given two redemption contexts,
the Origin cannot determine if both redemption contexts correspond to the same
Client or two different Clients. Informally, this means that a Client in a
redemption context is indistinguishable from any other Client that might use
the same redemption context. The set of Clients that share the same redemption
context is referred to as a redemption anonymity set.
2. Issuer-Client unlinkability. This is similar to Origin-Client unlinkability

> in that a Client in an issuer context is indistingusihable from any other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in that a Client in an issuer context is indistinguishable from any other
```

> in that a Client in an issuer context is indistingusihable from any other

Author: ```suggestion
in that a Client in an issuer context is indistinguishable from any other
```

participants, underlying cryptographic constructions used when issuing tokens,
and even privacy properties.

Clients initiate the issuance protocol using the token challenge, a randomly
generated nonce, and public key for the Issuer, all of which are the Client's
private input to the protocol and ultimately bound to an output Token;
see {{Section 2.2 of AUTHSCHEME}} for details. Future specifications
may change or extend the Client's input to the issuance protocol to produce
Tokens with a different structure.

The issuance protocol itself can be any interactive protocol between Client,
Issuer, or other parties that produces a valid token bound to the Client's
private input, subject to the following security requirements.

1. Unconditional input secrecy. The issuance protocol MUST NOT reveal anything
about the Client's private input, including the challenge and nonce, to the
Attester or Issuer, regardless of the hardness assumptions of the underlying
cryptographic protocol(s). The issuance protocol can reveal the Issuer public
key for the purposes of determining which private key to use in producing the

> token. This property is sometimes also referred to as blindness.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to explicitly refer to this property as "blindness" or just leave it as Unconditional input secrecy?

Author: Let's leave this as-is.

The value these properties affords to end users depends on
the size of anonymity sets in which Clients or Origins are
unlinkable. For example, consider two different deployments, one wherein
there exists a redemption anonymity set of size two and another
wherein there redemption anonymity set of size 2<sup>32</sup>. Although

> Origin-Client unlinkabiity guarantees that tje Origin cannot link any two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Origin-Client unlinkabiity guarantees that the Origin cannot link any two
```

> Origin-Client unlinkabiity guarantees that tje Origin cannot link any two

Reviewer 2: nit: the

> Origin-Client unlinkabiity guarantees that tje Origin cannot link any two

Reviewer 3: sp: the
